<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>HTML5 &lt;input type="email"&gt; validation</title>
<style>
html {
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
  font-size: 1.2em;  /* Set rem */
  background-color: #111115;
}
body {
  max-width: 50rem;
  margin: 0 auto;
  font-family: sans-serif;
  color: #ddddef;
}
header {
  margin-top: 1rem;
  margin-bottom: 1rem;
  background-color: #222229;
  padding: 2em;
  color: #aaaacf;
}
h1 {
  margin: 0;
  font-family: serif;
}
main {
  padding: 1em;
}
hr {
  margin: 2em 0 3em 0;
  border: none;
  height: 2px;
  background-color: #88888f;
}
li {
  margin-top: 1em;
}
input {
  border: 1px solid #888;
  padding: .25em .5em;
  font-size: 0.7rem;
}
input:valid {
  border: 1px solid #060;
  background-color: #afa;
}
input:invalid {
  border: 1px solid #f00;
  background-color: #faa;
}
a {
  color: inherit;
  text-decoration: underline;
}
</style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <header>
      <h1>HTML5 <code>&lt;input type="email"&gt;</code> validation tests</h1>
    </header>
    <main>
      <p>
      This XHTML5 file serves to test how browsers implement HTML5 <code>&lt;input type="email"&gt;</code> validation, and thus how the <tt>pg_html5_email_address</tt> PostgreSQL extension should handle this validation to be in sync with both the HTML5 spec and the implementations thereof.
      </p>
      <p>
      Apologies to the red-blue color blind (like my own brother)…
      </p>
      <hr/>
      <p>
      </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            It is obvious that an email address such as <input type="email" value="rowan@example.com"/> should be valid.
          </li>
          <li>
            But, to many people, it is less obvious that <input type="email" value="#rowan.van-der-molen+nelia~lamaroso=$*@example.com"/> is also a valid email address.
          </li>
          <li>
            Pre-HTML5, when developers relied on there own guesswork to half-arse email validation rules, these rules often ended up being so strict that even an email address such as <input type="email" value="bigsmoke+pg_html5_email_address@gmail.com"/> was then deemed to be incorrect. That is annoying because many people relied on, for example <input type="email" value="theirname+something@gmail.com"/>, to filter email from different services differently.
          </li>
          <li>
            And it's hard to blame them. RFC 5322 is notoriously vague and complicated. It has needless complications such as … comments: <input type="email" value="jane.doe(comment)@example.com"/> is a valid email address as per RFC 5322. The HTML5 spec disagrees. The HTML5 spec also doesn't allow spaces in the local part of an email address, such as in <input type="email" value='"Jane Doe"@example.com'/>.
          </li>
          <li>
            Browser makers appear to have mixed feelings about whether unicode should be allowed in the domain name part of the email address: <input type="email" value="rowan@éxÄmple.com"/>.
          </li>
          <li>
            But they seem to agree that Unicode in the local part is bad: <input type="email" value="rowán@example.com"/>. <a href="https://youtu.be/Rr8ljRgcJNM">“We're all living in Amerika”</a>?
          </li>
        </ul>
    </main>
  </body>
</html>
<!-- vim: set expandtab tabstop=2 shiftwidth=2: -->
